.TH GRI 1
.SH NAME 
gri \- scientific graphics language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gri
[
.B OPTIONS
]
[
.I CommandFile
[
.I optional_arguments
]]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Gri is a programming language for scientific graphics.  It can make
x-y graphs, contour-graphs, and image graphs.  In addition, Gri has a
full suite of low-level graphical elements and sufficient programming
capabilities (loops, subroutines, etc) to permit complex
customization.

Gri is not a point-click application.  In some ways it is analogous to
TeX; in both cases extensive power rewards tolerance of a modest
learning curve.

This manpage is for Gri version VERSION.

.SH FULL DOCUMENTATION

This manpage is intended merely as a pointer to the main
documentation, which you may find at:

.SS The INFO manual
is accessed by typing
.B info gri
or by accessing the 'info' node in Emacs or in other standard ways.

.SS The HTML manual
is located at
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-VERSION/html/index.html
This manual is very extensive, and one thing you might like
to check is the 
.I html
FAQ associated with the manual, which is located at
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-VERSION/html/FAQ.html

.SS PostScript reference cards
are at
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-VERSION/refcard.ps
(overall reference and quick introduction) and 
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-VERSION/cmdrefcard.ps
(reference to commands).

(Note: users of RedHat versions earlier than 7.0 may
find the above-mentioned files in
.B /usr/doc/gri-VERSION
instead of
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-VERSION
as noted above.)

.SH EMACS SUPPORT

An 
.I emacs
mode is provided with Gri.  It is at
.B /usr/share/emacs/site-lisp/gri-mode.el
and is fully described in a chapter in the manual.

.SH SEE ALSO
Related programs
.B gri_unpage
and 
.B gri_merge
for working with PostScript output from Gri.

.SH AUTHORS
Gri (c) 1999-2002 Dan Kelley <Dan.Kelley@Dal.CA> and Peter S Galbraith
<psg@debian.org>.
