.TH GRI 1
.SH NAME 
gri \- scientific graphics language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gri
[
.B OPTIONS
]
.I CommandFile
[
.I PostScriptFile
]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Gri is a programming language for scientific graphics.  It can make
x-y graphs, contour-graphs, and image graphs.  In addition, Gri has a
full suite of low-level graphical elements and sufficient programming
capabilities (loops, subroutines, etc) to permit complex
customization.

Gri is not a point-click application.  In some ways it is analogous to
TeX.  Extensive power rewards tolerance of a modest learning curve.

.C For more information, please consult online 
.C .I info
.C and
.C .I html
.C manuals.

.C The 
.C .I info
.C manual is normally accessed by typing
.C 
.C .B	info gri

An online
.I html
manual is normally located at
.B /opt/gri/doc/gri/html/index.html
but it may be installed in a different place on this machine.

.C The 
.C .I html
.C FAQ is located at
.C .B /usr/doc/gri-N.N.N/html/FAQ.html

.C There is also a 
.C .I reference card
.C in TeX and postscript formats.  See
.C .B /usr/doc/gri/refcard.*
.C
.C The 
.C .I examples
.C in
.C .B /usr/doc/gri/examples/
.C are shown in the manual, and are included as a quick start primer.

.C .SH GRI_MERGE AND GRI_UNPAGE COMMANDS
.C
.C Two Perl scripts are provided with Gri to manipulate the PostScript
.C output.  
.C 
.C .I gri_merge
.C is used to merge multiple Gri output files into a single PostScript file.
.C Type
.C .B gri_merge -h
.C for usage information.
.C 
.C .I gri_unpage
.C is used is split a multi-page Gri output file (in which the
.C .B new page
.C command was used) into separate PostScript files, one for each page.  Type
.C .B gri_unpage -h

.C .SH EMACS SUPPORT
.C 
.C An 
.C .I emacs
.C mode is provided with Gri.  
.C .C Consult the primer
.C .C 
.C .C .B /opt/gri/doc/gri/doc/README.gri-mode
.C 
.C The mode may be installed automatically in Debian by the elisp file: 
.C 
.C .B /etc/emacs/site-start.d/50gri.el
.C 
.C The emacs mode itself is
.C .I gri-mode.el
.C and is installed on Debian as 
.C .B /usr/share/emacs/site-lisp/gri-mode.el
.C 
.C Byte-compiled versions of this file are produced for every flavour of Emacs
.C that is installed, and are located in places like
.C .B /usr/share/emacs/20.2/site-lisp/gri-mode.elc


.C .SH INSTALLING MULTIPLE VERSIONS 
.C 
.C Since the way Gri works sometimes changes with new versions, you may want
.C to keep old versions installed if an important script depends on it.  The
.C Debian packaging of Gri allows this.  Installing the next gri package
.C (named like gri_2.1.22-1_i386.deb) will replace your current version, but
.C Debian i386 (and perhaps alpha) packages will be made for older versions
.C which can be installed alongside the main gri package.  Look for a package
.C named like so:
.C 
.C .B gri-2.1.21_2.1.21-1_i386.deb
.C 
.C at the ftp site:
.C 
.C .B ftp://ftp.phys.ocean.dal.ca/users/rhogee/gri/

.SH AUTHOR
Gri (c) 1999-2002 Dan Kelley <Dan.Kelley@Dal.CA>, released as GPL open-source software.

This manual page is patterned on the Debian manual page by Peter S Galbraith <psg@debian.org>
