.TH GRI 1
.SH NAME 
gri \- scientific graphics language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gri
[
.B OPTIONS
]
.I CommandFile
[
.I PostScriptFile
]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Gri is a programming language for scientific graphics.  It can make
x-y graphs, contour-graphs, and image graphs.  In addition, Gri has a
full suite of low-level graphical elements and sufficient programming
capabilities (loops, subroutines, etc) to permit complex
customization.

Gri is not point-click.  In some ways it is analogous to TeX.
Extensive power rewards tolerance of a modest learning curve.

For more information, please consult online 
.I info
and
.I html
manuals.

The 
.I info
manual included in the main
.B gri
Debian package is normally accessed by typing

.B	info gri

(or from within Emacs' own info).

There are also 
.I reference cards
in postscript format.  See
.B /usr/share/doc/gri/*refcard.ps

The Debian package
.B gri-html-doc
provides the
.I html
manual, which when installed is then located at
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-html-doc/html/index.html
or, if you have a web server installed, at
.B http://localhost/doc/gri-html-doc/html/index.html
The HTML manual is accessible via 
.I dwww
and
.I dhelp
Debian help interfaces.
The 
.I html
FAQ is located at
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-html-doc/html/FAQ.html

The
.B gri-html-doc
package also includes
.I examples
in
.B /usr/share/doc/gri-html-doc/examples/
which are described in the manual, and are included as a quick start primer.

The
.B gri-ps-doc
package is a 
.I PostScript
version of the manual suitable for printing.

.SH GRI_MERGE AND GRI_UNPAGE COMMANDS

Two Perl scripts are provided with Gri to manipulate the PostScript
output.  

.I gri_merge
is used to merge multiple Gri output files into a single PostScript file.
See 
.B gri_merge -h
for usage information.

.I gri_unpage
is used is split a multi-page Gri output file (in which the
.B new page
command was used) into separate PostScript files, one for each page.


.SH EMACS SUPPORT

An 
.I emacs
mode is provided with Gri.  Consult the primer

.B	/usr/share/doc/gri/README.gri-mode

The mode is installed automatically in Debian by the elisp file: 

.B /etc/emacs/site-start.d/50gri.el

The emacs mode itself is
.I gri-mode.el
and is installed on Debian as 
.B /usr/share/emacs/site-lisp/gri-mode.el

Byte-compiled versions of this file are produced for every flavour of Emacs
that is installed, and are located in places like
.B /usr/share/emacs/20.2/site-lisp/gri-mode.elc


.SH INSTALLING MULTIPLE VERSIONS 

Since the way Gri works sometimes changes with new versions, you may want
to keep old versions installed if an important script depends on it.  The
Debian packaging of Gri allows this.  Installing the next gri package
(named like gri_LATERVSN-1_i386.deb) will replace your current version, but
Debian i386 (and perhaps alpha) packages will be made for older versions
which can be installed alongside the main gri package.  Look for a package
named like so:

.B gri-VSN_VSN-1_i386.deb

at the ftp site:

.B ftp://ftp.phys.ocean.dal.ca/users/kelley/gri/linux-debian/

.SH AUTHOR
Gri (c) 1999 Dan Kelley <Dan.Kelley@Dal.CA>

This manual page by Peter S Galbraith <psg@debian.org>.
